I want to bring in our senior Asia
economics and government correspondent
Rebecca Choong Wilkins now, who also
helped lead Bloomberg's coverage of the
Trump-Xi summit. She joins us now from
Singapore. Rebecca, I'm sure it was a
busy day for all of us yesterday. What's
the team working on today and really
what what came out of this summit?
Well, I think day two does shift the
tone a little bit. We are now looking
for more of those concrete deliverables.
Yesterday, of course, very warm words,
heavy on the symbolism when we look at
that visit to the Temple of Heaven. And
dribs and drabs, so we had Greer there
talking about billions of dollars worth
of agricultural deals, but as my
colleague Jason pointed out, probably
not new ones when it comes to soybeans.
These beef is another early winner here
as well.
But, semi- conductors have not come up
as a major sticking point and a major
talking point in the way that it was
hoped for.
And of course, some reaction now to
Trump's most recent comments on the
Strait of Hormuz. So, certainly still
looking for any evidence of a real
reset.
All right. That's a good way to kind of
bring in our next guest. Ben Kesheva
there, international trade and
investment partner at Hogan Lovells. He
is a former assistant general counsel at
the office of the US trade
representative. Ben, it's great to have
you here. Pleasure to be here.
>> I'm sure you've been watching of all the
pageantry, the pomp and all that and
circumstance. I mean, overall your take
on what happened in Beijing. Well, I
think the summit benefited from low
expectations, but it's overall been
successful. We've seen a lot of pomp,
not a lot of change in circumstances,
but that pomp matters, too.
Especially when you look back at when
Trump was coming into office, the
expectations that the US-China
relationship would be a lot more
confrontational. Now you're seeing two
sides working together trying to resolve
common problems, but also common
interests.
Ben, Rebecca here. I mean, in some ways
when we see Trump and Xi interacting, it
is a bit of a throwback to 2017 and the
warmth and sort of personality of that
relationship. I'm wondering, how much
does that kind of leader chemistry
actually still matter given the sort of
structural fundamental structural
adversarial nature of the relationship
between China and the US?
Someone told me a long time ago that
governance comes down to four P's of
policy, politics, process, but also
people. And so, I think having positive
relationships at the highest of levels
and being able to resolve differences
because there is trust is very, very
helpful. You got to remember all these
people are jet-lagged and have coming to
a strange place and trying their best to
to to have positive relationships. So,
if there is a level of trust there
between Trump and Xi or everyone else in
the delegation, that helps a lot.
I'm throwing this forward a little bit
about the delegation, what happens next?
I mean, the Trump administration once
talked about fundamentally reshaping the
Chinese economy. Now, that focus is much
narrower. It's about preserving trade.
It's about getting some of those exports
of of soybeans and beef and so on. To
what extent has the trade the Trump
administration significantly reduced and
pared back its ambitions when it comes
to China? And how does that change the
reality on the ground when it comes to
negotiations for businesses?
I think it's a recognition that China's
model is here to stay and for decades
there's that has been a big part of
those negotiations with little success.
Now, we're starting to see a more
realistic relationship between the two
countries where they say we can trade in
these areas, we can try to resolve
common differences, continue to invest,
but we're not going to try to
fundamentally change either side. So, in
some ways it's less ambitious, but in
other ways it's more realistic and
perhaps more more successful to make
positive changes in the relationship.
It seems like when it came to chips, I
mean James mentioned in that interview
that
it wasn't really that prominent in these
talks here right now. What sort of
clarity do we still need really here?
Whether China is actually willing to
take some of these advanced chips from
everybody. Yeah, I
I I think I saw just as I was coming on
that Secretary Raimondo said something
about we'll salvage 200 chips if they're
willing to buy them. And of course we've
seen stalling on the Chinese side to
allow them in. And so for a while it was
about the United States not selling
them. Now it's whether or not China will
buy them. So it remains one of those
fundamental issues. All of the export
control rules which I work on every day
are very very complicated, but also the
policy around them
is challenging, too.
Ben, I mean to pick up on your point
there. You advise companies that are
caught in the crosshairs of this every
day. I think 60 IPOs perhaps would be
right at my my last count.
What are executives actually most
worried about these days? Is it tariffs?
Is it Taiwan? Is it something else? And
does this meeting actually move the
needle for them?
Yeah, I think that this meeting creates
a new floor on US-China relations. So
you know, we saw from 2017 up until the
end of 2025 a continued devolution of
the US-China relationship. Hopefully
this summit leads to a floor and people
can take
a sigh of relief that it's not going to
get worse, that we're not truly
decoupling. Companies are not having to
choose sides of China and the United
States. But that said, there are a lot
of problems that can come up. I work
every day in conflict of laws uh
between the United States and China, the
US sanctions, China's anti-foreign
sanctions law, export controls, outbound
investment reviews, CFIUS. So, there's a
lot of ways in which uh US, Chinese, and
companies around the world can still get
caught up in this uh legal and
regulatory mess. So, I think those have
not gone away even if the overall
picture has gotten a little clearer.
Um And for those companies from a sort
of ground level, what's the make or
break issue here when it comes to that
US-China negotiation? What is it that
they really need to see? And do you
think there's any possibility that we do
actually see that delivered, maybe not
from this meeting, but through the rest
of this year?
I think uh if these meetings continue to
go well and we avoid any flash points
and crises, whether it's Taiwan, South
China Sea, or other issues, and that
you're able to maintain the Busan truce
on on tariffs and rare earths, if these
meetings lead to actual deliverables on
other issues like technology, AI, trade,
if this board of trade uh
idea gets off the ground, then you'll
see companies being able to invest more
heavily and not feel like the the
ground's going to uh come out from under
them.
You mentioned Taiwan. I think everyone
is parsing through this this readout
that came through from Beijing while the
two leaders were meeting, that maybe
this is a new threat of some sort, some
sort of maybe not. I mean, this is what
you hear from Beijing rhetoric all the
time, but
do you think How do you think China is
going to approach
any sort of sort of, I guess,
irritants, I guess, in in this whole
relationship moving forward?
>> Yeah. Well, I think um
uh she stated current policy um perhaps
more clearly than he has before, but it
was still current policy. And like the
reaction in the domestic area in China
was much more muted. In in the West, it
was seen as a threat and it's in the on
the headlines of every newspaper right
now and that's the takeaway from what is
otherwise a very friendly summit. And
so, I don't think it's a change in
policy on China. I think if anything,
the risks of a conflict over Taiwan have
diminished over the last 12 months.
Uh I think you see
uh the United States changing its
policies to some degree and China
appears to also be with more willing to
be patient with Taiwan, which has been
their policy for decades now. So, I
think it's
uh of all the things you can worry about
in this fairly volatile world, Taiwan
might be one that you can be like,
"Okay, maybe this is not just it's going
to happen immediately." Of course, I
have no crystal ball and there could be
problems, but um I I think about it a
little less and and I advise my clients
on supply chain issues a little less on
that issue.